                 Meridian59: Dark Auspices
                 -------------------------

New Areas
---------
Goad's Arena -
  1 screen south of Decaying city of Brax
  EXACTLY opposite of Kraanan Arena
    you take REAL death, but keep AO3/SOTH's.
    Currently bugged to hell, both people have been dieing, and 
    tp'd back to die multiple times.
    also, currently(not sure if it'll change) you WILL turn red, and spawn
      a revenant.
    also, if you log or rescue from being IN the arena, Goad will
    kill you!  So don't play it if you're lagged!
      he'll say something like "cowards shall parish beneath me!"
    Who is Goad?  he was a necromancer that turned on the Queen, so she 
      punished him in this way.


Muggy room(can't remember name of it) - 
  entrance at The Hive in the jungle, looks like a cave entrance.
  purpose unknown
  Shrine present
  random items appear over a steam vent, but can't pick them up?
  Random Items seem to be the type of items that appear in Pacal's
    inventory.  Perhaps those items have to be held to activate
    shrine? - actually, i've tried this approach to no avail.

ROOMS - Morrigan(Marion) and Pritchett(barloque)
  go to those 2, and say "RENT ROOM".
  go to a door in back of store and USE the key.  In the room, 
  ring the bell on the wall.
  customize the room to look how YOU want it to, but it costs.

Changed Areas
-------------
Deep woods of Farol -
  told there is a shrine there ??(over on the eastern border)
  when i last saw it, no shrine was visible, now the area is bugged.

Badlands #2 -
  follow the pillars to jump around to the upper cliffs.
  multiple Bramble Walls appear and regrow back over time.
  Apple appears where Tendrath usually appears. reappears about 30 seconds after you grab one.
  unknown if Tendrath still moves there.
  there is a small square raised platform up where massive bramble is.
    unknown purpose for the platform, nothing on it in beta.
  Note: GREAT place to work touch spells with bramble regrowing.

Brog's Antechamber -
  passage to the orcpit boss
  it's not as easy to do now, in fact, nobody knows how to now.

Mocker's chamber -
  um, no idea, but for some reason, it's LOCKED ???

New Skills
----------
Disarm - level 5
  just what it says, running up to person makes them de-equip
    weapon, chance they DROP the weapon.
  Currently, you can even do this in shops, but supposed to only
    be done outside by release.
  - sold by Cylill

Second Wind - level 4
	told that it's kinda like having a SOTH/AO3 to 
        recuperate vigor - sold by Drechx
        also told that it recuperates vigor when you reach 'LOW' vigor.



New Spells
----------
Faren- Ring of Fire(4) - Miriana
  creates a ring of fire around the caster, does minimal damage,
    but drains the HELL out of vigor, like when you walk into a
    guild hall.

Faren- Mystic Touch(1) - Priestess
  transfers mana from caster to target

Jala- Distill(3) - Lady Aftyn
  for creating spell potions
  reagents are about 8-12 TIMES the normal regs used for the spell which
    you are creating a potion for; purify would use about 12 Emeralds,
    maybe more
  you SAY "<name of spell potion>", then cast the distill spell.

Shallile- Dazzle(3) - unknown
  like Blind, but looks like an elongated version of FLASH.
  creates a white flash, can't see anything.

Kraanan- Relay(1) - priestess
  transfers vigor from caster to target, or vice versa.  amount of
  vigor is unpredictable.

Kraanan- Eagle Eyes(4) - priestess
  Cuts down the time of Blind and Dazzle.
  Description reads that it helps with "Ranged attacks"

Kraanan- Silence(5) - Miriana
  unknown, nobody has it yet.
    - woops, someone got it, but it was bugged.  Apparently, makes casting
      spells impossible(i guess about like Spellbane), and no communications
      are allowed.  I believe it uses DAFs.

*** There may be more that just were never discovered, we had 2 complete
    character wipes due to gamesave file corruptions.  Advancement of
    characters were never re-established with potions, we had to rebuild
    each time.

Factions - oh boy....
---------
Duke now gets:
  A bonus to-hit, cheaper prices when buying things, a bonus to mana 
  regeneration, and faster learning of Riija/Jala spells.

Princess now get:
  A bonus to spellpower (spells have a better effect), a bonus 
  to defense, and faster learning of Faren/Qor/Shal'ille spells.

  Rebels now get: A bonus to damage, a bonus to hp regeneration, 
  and faster learning of Weaponcraft skills and Kraanan spells.

  Rebel faction:
  Leader: Jonas.  Jonas is PERMANENTLY in Pietros, no longer moves.
  Home of Rebel faction is Jasper.
  Revive vigor at 4 points per "ping" in pietros, not sure if you
  have to be a rebel.

The calculation of what level your faction bonus are at has changed now.
There are two parts to the calculation: power (accumulated from returning
tokens and from taking flags and territory), and number of members.  As a 
faction's power increases, your benefits will increase accordingly.
However, as your membership grows, your liege will have less time to 
dedicate to teaching each individual the bonuses, so they will decrease.

To find out relative number of followers, ask your liege "Tell me about 
your members."  This should let you know how many members there are.

Also note that the unfactioned are considered a faction.  You can return 
tokens to make counselors follow the guidance of Shal'ille and you can rip 
flags from poles in defiance to the power structure.  You will get roughly 
one fourth the benefits of a faction of equal power.  So, unfactioned 
people will get a wider variety of powers, but at a much lower level.

NOTE: princess no longer gets "to hit" bonus, and Duke no longer
      gets "damage" bonus, those have moved to other factions;
      read carefully!

Monsters -
--------
  well, only 1 new type, no idea where they live.  they're not "IN"
  the game anywhere yet, but they managed to kill the 2 programmers!

Te'Xeochactl - Orange - Very sluggish moving
Ma'Xeochactl - Blue - VERY fast moving
Ra'Xeochactl - Red  - Unsure

  They pretty much look alike, except different colored bodies.
  Difference is speed and difficulty to kill.  one is fast, but weak
  and vice versa...
  Hit hard, cast hold, enfeeble, shatter, firewall, poison fog, ..
  i know there's more they cast, just can't remember.
  They're currently not allowed in game since they cast WAY too many
  firewalls and lag the area.
  OH, and they DRAIN your mana about like how Revanents drain vigor.
  not sure about this, but possible way to easily kill them is to feeb them,
    then have a qor master with SILENCE cast it, so the Xeo's can't cast???

Stats -
-------
Stamina - now determines level advancement of Kraanan and WC.
Int - now only for jala, and riija.
Myst - now only Shallile, qor, and faren.
Aim - those who have HIGH(like 45 and up) get an ADDED advantage,
      those in the mid-range will hit about normal, those under,
      well, take a wild guess.

Note: the stats determine what total(of 3) %'s are needed for your next
level, NOT how many total school's can be learned - THAT is determined still
by Intellect.

Special notes -
------------
Auspices is french for OMEN.. so the update is "Dark Omen"
Marion is totally redone.
Queen Groundworms appear in Martyr's Battleground now.
PUNCH- now uses LESS vigor, and hits ALOT harder.
Any rumor you heard about bows getting delayed are bogus!
Magic wands now have a delay timer placed on them.(about 4 seconds)
Right clicking on the Sun now gives Dazzle effect, not blind.
Jala's Distill spell will be a nice alternative to those who are qor and want
 to be able to cure themselves of sickness's from fighting(or curses).
If you go to the meridian website and look at the Herald, there's
 some strange looking potions on the left side.  Those are what
 the potions look like in the update that are created by Distill.

Some special excerpts straight from the developers
--------------------------------------------------
Knowing lots of spells will NOT harm your ability to learn more spells.  
Basically, knowing three level one spells in a school is the same as 
knowing six spells in that same level/school.  This will allow older 
characters to go back in and pick up some of the "new" spells their maxxed
out characters couldn't get before.

Since you are here to find bugs, we won't be giving out storylines on Beta.
You'll just have to wait to find out if anyone dies in this next update, or
why there seem to be no Xeochicatl wandering around in the lands, etc.
Don't even ask, it'll waste both our time.

--------------
If this letter is received before the release, i'd suggest doing the following:

get all the spells you can now that you skipped due to skipping to help with
advancement, stat changes may make your development come to a halt and not
get any new spells.

start collecting some orc shields from the orcpit boss, since getting there is
a miracle of itself.

lose faction membership.  i believe everyone will be switching to jonas.
  Furthermore: make sure you have some mystics, plate, and other WC items.
  so far, i've seen Plate, gauntlets, and mystic be requested by Jonas to
  join his faction.

As a side note of Jonas: i finally got to see him 5 fully dedicated, and I
 received all 3 bonus': faster HP recuperation, learning bonus of kraanan/WC,
 and damage bonus... it was VERY sweet!